

This a model from the article:  
**A quantitative model of sleep-wake dynamics based on the physiology of the brainstem ascending arousal system.**   
Phillips AJ, Robinson PA. _J Biol Rhythms_ 2007 Apr;22(2):167-79
[17440218](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17440218) ,  
**Abstract:**   
A quantitative, physiology-based model of the ascending arousal system is
developed, using continuum neuronal population modeling, which involves
averaging properties such as firing rates across neurons in each population.
The model includes the ventrolateral preoptic area (VLPO), where circadian and
homeostatic drives enter the system, the monoaminergic and cholinergic nuclei
of the ascending arousal system, and their interconnections. The human sleep-
wake cycle is governed by the activities of these nuclei, which modulate the
behavioral state of the brain via diffuse neuromodulatory projections. The
model parameters are not free since they correspond to physiological
observables. Approximate parameter bounds are obtained by requiring
consistency with physiological and behavioral measures, and the model
replicates the human sleep-wake cycle, with physiologically reasonable
voltages and firing rates. Mutual inhibition between the wake-promoting
monoaminergic group and sleep-promoting VLPO causes ;;flip-flop'' behavior,
with most time spent in 2 stable steady states corresponding to wake and
sleep, with transitions between them on a timescale of a few minutes. The
model predicts hysteresis in the sleep-wake cycle, with a region of
bistability of the wake and sleep states. Reducing the monoaminergic-VLPO
mutual inhibition results in a smaller hysteresis loop. This makes the model
more prone to wake-sleep transitions in both directions and makes the states
less distinguishable, as in narcolepsy. The model behavior is robust across
the constrained parameter ranges, but with sufficient flexibility to describe
a wide range of observed phenomena.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Phillips AJ, Robinson PA. (2007) - version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/538f7b53af627b47e9d3f66aef27f9e5)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Catherine Lloyd**   
c.lloyd@auckland.ac.nz  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

